# EGA Metadata Schemas
## Overview
In this directory you will find EGA's **metadata standards** or **_schemas_**: a coding system to catalogue information in structured descriptive records. These basically stablish **data elements** (_e.g._ what is ``Phenotype`` within a Sample) and the **rules** (_e.g._ if such ``Phenotype`` field can contain ``strings`` and ``integers`` or not) governing their use to describe instances. There is one schema file (_e.g._ ``EGA.ArrayExperiment.json``) for every metadata object (_e.g._ ``ArrayExperiment``), in addition to the common schema (``EGA.common-definitions.json``). 

The current schemas are written in JavaScript Object Notation (**JSON**), providing both human- and machine-readable documentation. For further details regarding JSON-schemas visit [JSON-schema](https://json-schema.org/) and [Getting started](https://json-schema.org/learn/getting-started-step-by-step) (for an overview), or [Understanding JSON schema](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/) (for an detailed cover). 

Furthermore, there is an additional folder, ``validation_tests``, in which there are several ``json`` files which serve as **examples that are supposed to pass validation** (if their name contains ``valid``) or **throw validation errors**. Besides, in that same directory there is a **jupyter notebook** that contains a small code block ready for you to use it to validate these example ``json`` files. 

## Planning to modify the schemas?
In case these schemas need to be modified, in this section you will find listed some details about the current approach that may ease the process:
* **Shared definitions**. All schemas share some fields (_e.g._ ``alias``) or patterns (_e.g._ checksum patterns) which can lead to duplicated code. In order to avoid it, we created an additional schema that corresponds to none of the EGA objects: ``EGA.common-definitions.json``. In this file those repeated objected are written for other schemas or objects to inherit. The way these cross-file references are achieved is by using the IDs of the schemas (``$id`` within its first layer) and object's keywords (_e.g._ ``"EGA-sample-id-pattern``), which point to the objects within the files, using them as references (``$ref`` wherever they are needed). 
